Create 2023-09-05-use-opensearch-benchmark-with-randomized-query-term… (#1966)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2023-09-05-use-opensearch-benchmark-with-randomized-query-terms.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "Use OpenSearch Benchmark with Randomized Query Terms"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  "Use OpenSearch Benchmark with randomized query terms"
```

> title:  "Use OpenSearch Benchmark with Randomized Query Terms"

Reviewer: Use sentence case for titles.

authors:
- handler

> date: 2023-09-05

Reviewer 2: Please update the date to 2023-09-14, and we'll get this one out tomorrow.

categories:
  - technical-post
meta_keywords: opensearch-benchmark

> meta_description: Learn how to add a randomized query set to an OpenSearch Benchmark workload

Reviewer 2: Hi Jon - Please update the meta with the following if you agree with the edits: 

**meta_keywords:** OpenSearch benchmark, OpenSearch benchmark workload, OpenSearch cluster
**meta_description:** Learn how to add a randomized query set to an OpenSearch benchmark workload to read and build a test framework for data running in your cluster.

---

Performance testing is part science and part art. On the measurement side, you employ science to run test cases, collect and visualize metrics, and evaluate results. On the test creation side, you use intuition and understanding to make sure that you build coverage across the use cases and data that will comprise the majority of the uses of OpenSearch.

> [OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/index/) is a community-driven, benchmarking framework that makes it easy to benchmark your workload against OpenSearch. You can use OpenSearch benchmark to create a custom workload, pulling data from your indices on OpenSearch, and then customize that workload to your requirements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/index/) is a community-driven benchmarking framework that makes it easy to benchmark your workload against OpenSearch. You can use OpenSearch Benchmark to create a custom workload, pulling data from your OpenSearch indexes, and then customize that workload to your requirements. 
```

> [OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/index/) is a community-driven, benchmarking framework that makes it easy to benchmark your workload against OpenSearch. You can use OpenSearch benchmark to create a custom workload, pulling data from your indices on OpenSearch, and then customize that workload to your requirements. 

Reviewer: Non-hardcoded references to _indices_ should be changed to _indexes_.

> One limitation of OpenSearch Benchmark is that when you run a search operation, the query itself is hard-coded. If you want to randomize your query workload across a set of possible search terms, there's no out-of-the-box way to do that. In this post, you'll use data from [BoardgameGeek.com](https://boardgamegeek.com/) (BGG) to create a custom Opensearch Benchmark workload. You'll then create two, one-line-per-query files and use those files to create randomized terms for querying OpenSearch. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One limitation of OpenSearch Benchmark is that when you run a search operation, the query itself is hard-coded. If you want to randomize your query workload across a set of possible search terms, there's no out-of-the-box way to do that. In this post, you'll use data from [BoardGameGeek.com](https://boardgamegeek.com/) (BGG) to create a custom Opensearch Benchmark workload. You'll then create two one-line-per-query files and use those files to create randomized terms for querying OpenSearch. 
```

## Prerequisites

> To set up to follow this example, you’ll need the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow this example, you’ll need the following:
```

> - **Python 3.8+**: Follow instructions to install [Python 3.8+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Python 3.8+**: Follow instructions to install [Python 3.8+](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
```

> - **Java Development Kit (JDK) 17**: Follow instructions to [install JDK 17](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Java Development Kit (JDK) 17**: Follow instructions to [install JDK 17](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/).
```

> - **OpenSearch Benchmark**: Follow instructions to [install OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/installing-benchmark/). I installed in a virtual environment in a scratch directory that also holds the custom workload and config. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **OpenSearch Benchmark**: Follow instructions to [install OpenSearch Benchmark](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/benchmark/installing-benchmark/). I installed it in a virtual environment in a scratch directory that also holds the custom workload and config. 
```

> - **OpenSearch Cluster**: For this walkthrough, I used [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) to run OpenSearch on my machine. Follow the [OpenSearch Quick Start](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/quickstart/) to create an OpenSearch cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **OpenSearch Cluster**: For this walkthrough, I used [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/) to run OpenSearch on my machine. Follow the [OpenSearch Quickstart](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/quickstart/) to create an OpenSearch cluster.
```

> - **Data in OpenSearch**: [BoardgameGeek provides APIs](https://boardgamegeek.com/wiki/page/BGG_XML_API2) that deliver data to you in Extensible Markup Language (XML). For this example, I used and extended [sample code from the Open Distro for Elasticsearch project that downloads some games from BoardGameGeek](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/sample-code/tree/main/BGG) to load games into OpenSearch in a `games` index. The data contains names, descriptions, ratings, user comments, and more. If you have your own data set, you can load that into OpenSearch instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data in OpenSearch**: [BGG provides APIs](https://boardgamegeek.com/wiki/page/BGG_XML_API2) that deliver data to you in Extensible Markup Language (XML). For this example, I used and extended [sample code from the Open Distro for Elasticsearch project that downloads some games from BGG](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/sample-code/tree/main/BGG) to load games into OpenSearch in a `games` index. The data contains names, descriptions, ratings, user comments, and more. If you have your own dataset, you can load that into OpenSearch instead.
```

> - **Data in OpenSearch**: [BoardgameGeek provides APIs](https://boardgamegeek.com/wiki/page/BGG_XML_API2) that deliver data to you in Extensible Markup Language (XML). For this example, I used and extended [sample code from the Open Distro for Elasticsearch project that downloads some games from BoardGameGeek](https://github.com/opendistro-for-elasticsearch/sample-code/tree/main/BGG) to load games into OpenSearch in a `games` index. The data contains names, descriptions, ratings, user comments, and more. If you have your own data set, you can load that into OpenSearch instead.

Reviewer: Because BoardGameGeek has already been defined as BGG above, we can just use the abbreviation thereafter.

## Generate a custom workload

> Once you have your data loaded into the games index, create a working directory and `cd` into it. I created a directory `osb`. Create a custom workload by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have loaded your data into the games index, create a working directory and `cd` into it. I created a directory named `osb`. Create a custom workload by running the following command:
```

```opensearch-benchmark create-workload --workload=bgg --target-hosts="<your cluster endpoint>" --client-options="basic_auth_user:'<your user name>',basic_auth_password:'<your password>',verify_certs:false" --indices=games --output-path=.```

> **NOTE:** This example uses basic authentication. Be sure to replace `<your user name>`, and `<your user password>` with the values you used to set up the security plugin in the command-line above. Replace `<your cluster endpoint>` with the endpoint and port for your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** This example uses basic authentication. Be sure to replace `<your user name>` and `<your user password>` with the values you used to set up the Security plugin in the command line above. Replace `<your cluster endpoint>` with the endpoint and port for your cluster.
```

> Opensearch benchmark creates a `bgg` directory with a number of files, including `games.json`, and `workload.py`. Examine `games.json`. This file contains the index settings that OpenSearch Benchmark will use when creating the games directory in your test cluster. In the settings section, you can see that Benchmark has created some templatized settings for `number_of_shards`, and `number_of_replicas`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Opensearch Benchmark creates a `bgg` directory with a number of files, including `games.json` and `workload.py`. Examine `games.json`. This file contains the index settings that OpenSearch Benchmark will use when creating the games directory in your test cluster. In the settings section, you can see that Benchmark has created some templatized settings for `number_of_shards` and `number_of_replicas`:
```

> Opensearch benchmark creates a `bgg` directory with a number of files, including `games.json`, and `workload.py`. Examine `games.json`. This file contains the index settings that OpenSearch Benchmark will use when creating the games directory in your test cluster. In the settings section, you can see that Benchmark has created some templatized settings for `number_of_shards`, and `number_of_replicas`.

Reviewer: If "Settings" appears as capitalized in the UI, it should be "In the Settings section".

```
    "settings": {
        "index": {
            "number_of_replicas": "{{number_of_replicas | default(1)}}",
            "number_of_shards": "{{number_of_shards | default(1)}}",
            "replication": {
                "type": "DOCUMENT"
            }
        }
    }
```

> When you run Benchmark from the command-line, you can set these values to try out different test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run Benchmark from the command line, you can set these values to try out different test cases.
```

> Examine `workload.json`. This file contains the workload description in the `indices` and `corpora` sections. The `schedule` section defines the operations that the test runs, in the order it runs them, by default. The default test framework deletes any existing index named `games`, creates a fresh index, waits for the cluster to settle, then bulk loads the data it has downloaded, and runs a `match_all` query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examine `workload.json`. This file contains the workload description in the `indices` and `corpora` sections. The `schedule` section defines the operations that the test runs, in the order it runs them, by default. The default test framework deletes any existing index named `games`, creates a fresh index, waits for the cluster to settle, bulk loads the data it has downloaded, and runs a `match_all` query.
```

> You can test this configuration by running the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can test this configuration by running the following command:
```

```
opensearch-benchmark execute-test --pipeline benchmark-only --workload-path=<path-to-your-bgg-folder> --target-host=<your cluster endpoint> --client-options="use_ssl:true,basic_auth_user:'<your user name>',basic_auth_password:'<your password>',verify_certs:false" --workload-params="bulk_size:300"
```

> Be sure to replace `<your user name>`, `<your user password>`, `<your cluster endpoint>` and the `<path-to-your-bgg-folder>` with the correct values. In the command-line above, you can see where I set the actual `_bulk` size to 300 with the `--workload-params`. Benchmark resolves and inserts this value in the `bulk` operation from `workload.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to replace `<your user name>`, `<your user password>`, `<your cluster endpoint>`, and `<path-to-your-bgg-folder>` with the correct values. In the command line above, you can see where I set the actual `_bulk` size to 300 with the `--workload-params`. Benchmark resolves and inserts this value in the `bulk` operation from `workload.json`:
```

```
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": {{bulk_size | default(100)}},
        "ingest-percentage": {{ingest_percentage | default(100)}}
      },
      "clients": {{bulk_indexing_clients | default(8)}}
    }
```

Use `--workload-params` to vary values across your test cases.

## Prepare query terms

> Looking at `workload.json`, you can see that the test runs a single, `match-all` query. Of course, this is not a realistic test. You could make the query more robust, running one or many match queries, but that wouldn't be adequate coverage or represent realistic, end-user queries. To build a better query set, I downloaded games from the BGG API, and pulled out the `primary_name` and `description` fields. I tokenized and cleaned this data then generated 1-5 term query strings and wrote 100,000 of them to a file called `bgg_words.txt`. You'll see in the next section how to wire in this set of terms. Here's a sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking at `workload.json`, you can see that the test runs a single `match-all` query. Of course, this is not a realistic test. You could make the query more robust, running one or many match queries, but that wouldn't provide adequate coverage or represent realistic end user queries. To build a better query set, I downloaded games from the BGG API and pulled out the `primary_name` and `description` fields. I tokenized and cleaned this data, generated 1--5 term query strings, and wrote 100,000 of them to a file called `bgg_words.txt`. You'll see in the next section how to wire in this set of terms. Here's a sample:
```

> Looking at `workload.json`, you can see that the test runs a single, `match-all` query. Of course, this is not a realistic test. You could make the query more robust, running one or many match queries, but that wouldn't be adequate coverage or represent realistic, end-user queries. To build a better query set, I downloaded games from the BGG API, and pulled out the `primary_name` and `description` fields. I tokenized and cleaned this data then generated 1-5 term query strings and wrote 100,000 of them to a file called `bgg_words.txt`. You'll see in the next section how to wire in this set of terms. Here's a sample:

Reviewer: Will the phrasal verb "wire in" be understood by most of the audience?

```
Introduces Professional 
declarant petals Machen 
destruyelos 80C tapped enemy 
bombing sculpts Scorn 8022 
Mystical interpose clearance Canope 
fulfilled 
Colony mortality 
5ive 
```

> To give a little more reality to the query set, I also downloaded a list of 10,000 english words (`english_words.txt`) that will provide single-term queries. You can find a similar list on the internet, generate one of your own, or even skip this step.

Reviewer: I suggest "To make the query set a little more real".

> One risk with the BGG terms and the English words, is that you will have too many queries that don't match any documents. These "zero-result" queries are faster and cause less load than queries that have matches. If the ratio of zero-result queries is too high, your test results won't be accurate. To solve that, as part of your testing, you can track the hit counts for all of your queries and adjust your term sets to ensure that you have matches and zero-result queries that are representative for your workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One risk of using the BGG terms and English words is that you will have too many queries that don't match any documents. These "zero-result" queries are faster and cause less load than queries that have matches. If the ratio of zero-result queries is too high, your test results won't be accurate. To solve that, as part of your testing, you can track the hit counts for all of your queries and adjust your term sets to ensure that you have matches and zero-result queries that are representative of your workload.
```

## Build a custom parameter source

> To wire your query terms in to the workload, use a custom parameter source. Modify the search operation in `workload.json` to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To wire your query terms in to the workload, use a custom parameter source. Modify the search operation in `workload.json` to reflect the following:
```

> To wire your query terms in to the workload, use a custom parameter source. Modify the search operation in `workload.json` to

Reviewer: Will the phrasal verb "wire in to" be understood by most of the audience?

```
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "search",
        "param-source": "search-term-source",
        "index": "games"
      },
      "clients": {{search_clients | default(8)}},
      "iterations": 1000
    }
```

> You add a `param-source` parameter that calls the item `search-term-source` from Benchmark's registry. Create `workload.py` in the `bgg` directory. Benchmark will look for a file with this name and execute it on startup. You also increase the number of `iterations` for this operation to 1,000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You add a `param-source` parameter that calls the item `search-term-source` from Benchmark's registry. Create `workload.py` in the `bgg` directory. Benchmark will look for a file with this name and execute it on startup. You also increase the number of `iterations` for this operation to 1,000.
```

> Create a file called `workload.py` with the contents below, in the same directory as `workload.json`. The `random_search_term` function selects random terms from either the English words corpus or the BGG corpus and injects them into a term query body. The `register` function registers the `random_search_term` function as the `search-term-source` parameter source. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a file called `workload.py` containing the following content in the same directory as `workload.json`. The `random_search_term` function selects random terms from either the English words corpus or the BGG corpus and injects them into a term query body. The `register` function registers the `random_search_term` function as the `search-term-source` parameter source. 
```

# This function generates and returns a full query body. Be sure to match
# the function signature and return structure as below.
def random_search_term(track, params, **kwargs):
    index_name = params.get("index")

    # Choose either a single english term, or one of the query
    # term sets from the BGG data.
    collection = random.choice([english_words, bgg_words])
    query = random.choice(collection)

    # logging.log(logging.INFO, f'Query: {query}')

    # Returns a basic term query against the description field. In most cases, for performance
    # testing, you want to disable the request cache. This carries through any cache parameter
    # specified in the workload.
    return {
        "body": {
            "query": {
                "term": {
                    "description": query
                }
            }
        },
        "index": index_name,
        "cache": params.get("cache", False)
    }

# This maps the random_search_term function to the search-term-source 
# parameter source specified in workload.json
def register(registry):
    registry.register_param_source("search-term-source", random_search_term)
```

> Run OpenSearch Benchmark with the command line above. If you want to validate that Benchmark is pulling in the terms correctly, uncomment the line that logs the query terms. You can also enable slow logging in your OpenSearch cluster. **Note**, logging each query, or enabling slow logs will materially affect your performance results, so be sure to turn them off for actual measurement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run OpenSearch Benchmark with the command line above. If you want to validate that Benchmark is pulling in the terms correctly, uncomment the line that logs the query terms. You can also enable slow logging in your OpenSearch cluster. **Note**: Logging each query or enabling slow logs will materially affect your performance results, so be sure to turn them off for actual measurement.
```

## Summary

> In this post, you learned how to use `opensearch-benchmark create-workload` to read data from a running cluster, and build a test framework for that data. With the test framework in place, you generalized the search operation to provide a realistic set of queries by using terms from the corpus and from the English language. You can generalize this method to pull in and randomize elements of your query to use OpenSearch Benchmark and get accurate results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this post, you learned how to use `opensearch-benchmark create-workload` to read data from a running cluster and build a test framework for that data. With the test framework in place, you generalized the search operation to provide a realistic set of queries by using terms from the corpus and from the English language. You can generalize this method to pull in and randomize elements of your query to use OpenSearch Benchmark and get accurate results.
```

> In this post, you learned how to use `opensearch-benchmark create-workload` to read data from a running cluster, and build a test framework for that data. With the test framework in place, you generalized the search operation to provide a realistic set of queries by using terms from the corpus and from the English language. You can generalize this method to pull in and randomize elements of your query to use OpenSearch Benchmark and get accurate results.

Reviewer: Last sentence: How about "You can use OpenSearch Benchmark to get accurate results by generalizing this method and pulling in and randomizing elements of your query"?
